All right. What's up, everyone? Welcome to another episode of the Tumol AI podcast. I am your host,
Sam Charrington. And today, I've got the pleasure of being joined by Disha Singla. Disha is a
senior director of machine learning engineering at Capital One. Before we dive into our conversation,
be sure to take a moment and hit that subscribe button wherever you're listening to today's show.
Disha, welcome to the podcast.
Hey, Sam. Thanks for inviting me here. I'm very excited today.
I'm super excited to chat with you as well. I'd love to get started by having you introduce yourself
to our audience and share a little bit about how you came into the field of machine learning.
Sure, Sam. So I joined Capital One earlier this year as a senior director of machine learning
engineering. Before Capital One, I have had opportunity to work at some great companies like
Intuit, Sony, Newstar, etc. So my career, I started as a full stack engineer, but I had a deep love
or passion for data. So the whole end to end lifecycle from collection of data all the way to driving
meaningful insights. So that's how I organically continue to grow in this role. And here at Capital One,
it's a great company. I joined earlier this year, where I'm leading a group of very talented
data scientists, machine learning and software engineers. A group is called data insights.
We are working on something that's very close to my heart, which is democratizing AI,
democratizing ML by making ML available to everybody. So our team has built reusable
libraries components and workflows and have created a platform which allow the citizen data
scientists to drive meaningful insight using our various office within Capital One.
Awesome. Awesome. Can you share maybe an example of, well, a couple of things. First,
when you think of a citizen data scientist, what's the kind of archetype for that person?
What are they typically? What's their day job, so to speak? And then what are some of the things
that they have done with the tools that your team is providing? So to me,
let me take you back like five to seven years back where everybody wanted to build models,
right? But not everybody can formalize. So people grow, they explore data sets, right? Or they want,
they know that there is value in that data. So they want to explore that value. They want to use
those insights to drive some meaningful decisions. So the way I would like to think is to categorize
data scientists are the people who have this formal education of ML, of stats. Whereas the citizen
data scientists in my point of view are the people who are analyst, who have done something with
data, but they do not necessarily are keen or build models. Or there are engineers who are data
engineers or software engineers who want to be able to do ML. That's how I would like to think
about it. So now when it comes to our tooling, if you think about what we are doing is we are building
reusable components. What we are trying to do is that let me give you an example, a concrete
example and that that ever helped. So the way our team is working on, we have built like reusable
libraries, workflow components and algorithms, which are in the field of monitoring and forecasting.
When I say monitoring, we are talking about time series, time series anomaly detection,
change point detection, root cause analysis and time series forecasting. So when we talk about
regular data scientists, they want to build these book models. Everybody wants to quickly spin
up a Jupyter notebook and then do some research, do some analysis of data, then they want to build
the features, they want to train the model, deploy the model and do a bunch of things and drive
the insights. Where we differentiate is our audiences, they want to do something quick,
they might not have strong engineering background or data science background, but what they know
is where the data is, what is they want to drive quickly using our tools and components.
So for example, right, we, for, let me give you an example of forecasting. So we have Workplace
Solutions team. They want to help our associates with our hybrid work environment. So they are
using our solution to kind of forecast how many people are going to be returning to work on
each day, how much the kitchen stocking has to be done. And now, so that's kind of forecasting,
but now let's think about the other thing, which we are very proud of is the transactional fraud.
So this is, for example, right, a third party, our internal team, which is a third party,
fraud team, they came to us. They were looking for some kind of solution to identify the anomalies
in the fraud and automatically defensive to mitigate the losses and reduce the customer friction.
So they partner with our team, they come and say like, hey, we want to do A, B, C, D, E,
and what we help is like we, we help them by creating this workflow, which is under the hood,
is a dad. And then what they do is they work with us, they say, this is where the data is.
And then what happens? Let me give you a little bit more detail. So when a transaction is
marked as fraudulent, right, it is then analyzed by our solutions in a batch mode.
And then what we do is the segments with the highest anomalies are flagged. So anomaly
detection algorithms, they say, this is the segment with the highest, this is the segment with
the highest anomalies. Then another other set of algorithms came in, which say that, okay,
this is the change point happens starting when they start noticing the change. And then there are
another, then after that, they go and see the root cause analysis. And then what happened,
the automatic rules get generated, which then get applied to the real time systems to prevent
the future fraud. And Sam, also if you know with any anomaly detection, one of the biggest
challenges is minimizing the false positives. So we have built an intelligent there with what helps
is all algorithms are open source and proprietary algorithms. So what these algorithms do is that
we have intelligence built in, which also minimize this false positives. For example, right,
if I go for a dinner with my husband, right, a nice dinner, and if my credit card gets declined
after that, that won't be a good thing, right. So it's way, not happy. So it's kind of very important
that we're not just having those algorithms built in, but we are, but we are also like helping
to use the results of this algorithm help with the real time systems to mitigate future fraud
and also give a good customer experience and reduce the friction because false positives are
big concerns. You mentioned some things that I think of as existing in different kind of layers
of a stack. You mentioned anomaly detection and forecasting as kind of these higher level almost
primitives that maybe you offer to these citizen data scientists. You also mentioned workflows.
Has your team, and you mentioned as well, open source and proprietary algorithms. So is your
team kind of curated a collection of these algorithms for forecasting and anomaly detection
and provided a platform that allows them to create these workflows and you're supporting them
in building the applications. Is that the way to think about the way your team engages with the
client? Yes. You said it very right. So let me also give you. So what is important for democratizing
ML and how we are helping is we are focused on the key for us is no low to no code. So what we are
doing is yes, we have an internal platform, which is very scalable built on Kubernetes. We have
this sophisticated orchestra. We have like this sophisticated workflows and libraries built in.
So yes, are the way I would say is are reusable libraries are sophisticated packaging of as you
said, these algorithms which are open source and proprietary algorithms which you have built over
time by researching using white papers and everything. And then under the hood are the low level
decks on which we have an abstraction built out. So we help our customers through providing UI
where the customer just goes. They just say, okay, hey, this is in the s3 bucket or in the snowflake
or wherever many data sources we have where the data sets are. Then they provide us some parameters
that, okay, I want this I want to drive this and these are some of the features which we think
are important for us. And then this is how often the model needs to be retrained and this is the
output sync whether the data has to go to an s3 bucket whether it has to go through snowflake or
whichever other other capital one data and capital one system data systems are. So we kind of collect
all these parameters and under the hood instead of now this person building the whole ML pipeline
which is very sophisticated piece of coding and not easy. So we do it under the hood for them.
And what happens is that we have governance and rules in place. So now what happens is because
they just choose the templates. They provide the parameters under the hood. We have all our algorithms
reviewed by our model review office. We have governance. We have everything in place. So the time
to market for these solutions for our internal platforms is like very, very good.
And what roles do you have on your team supporting all this? Do you have everything from data
engineering to ML engineering to data science? Yes. So the way I'll just share something interesting
you do, right? So for me, what an MLE encapsulates. So an ML engineer is a good mix of data engineer,
software engineer, data science and business acumen and be able to cloud skills. So now to answer
your questions, our team is data scientists, software engineers and machine learning engineers.
So they have all the necessary qualifications to build this end-to-end sophisticated system.
Right. Right. Right. You mentioned that the platform is Kubernetes-based. I recently spoke with
one of your colleagues, Ali Redell, whose team, I think from that conversation, they're very focused on
kind of low-level Kubernetes-based environments for machine learning there. Can you talk a little
bit about how what your team does and any intersection points or how the approach your teams take
and how they differ? Of course. First of all, I heard you. I am, as I said, I'm a huge fan of your
podcast. So I did listen to your podcast with Ali and it was a great talk by the way.
Absolutely. Thank you. The way I would like to answer this question is the way I think Ali's team
and our team is doing is very complimentary. What we are doing is we are building a coherent
ML ecosystem at Capital One catering to all kinds of personas, if you will. So the way
Ali's team is working on is building a sophisticated system for the regular data scientists,
as is done in a lot of companies. They're providing a system for regular data scientists who want to
spend a Jupyter notebook, who want to do feature engineering, who want to train their model,
who want to deploy the model, who want to create an artifact and deploy it, do hyperparameter
tuning. Where we add value, our team is adding value is democratizing ML in the niche, as I said,
around monitoring and forecasting. Where we add value is by building the
providing reusable libraries and components and workflows. For example, back in the day when I
was a data scientist, what I would do is I would spare a spin up a Jupyter notebook or an IDE
that I like. I would like to do feature engineering spend like long cycles to feature engineering
and then training and then hyperparameter tuning and then creating an artifact, creating a
Docker image and then deploy it. I think you mentioned bespoke earlier, like a very handcrafted
process of creating this model. Yes, which is like solving a particular problem, but what we do is
our audiences are the people who want to drive quick insights. They don't necessarily care about
building a model. They are looking at, okay, can somebody put a solution for us where we can
minimize the transactional fault? Can somebody help us like where we can detect anomalies in this
system? This is where we differentiate. Are the users of your platform are there? They build
these models using the algorithms that you provide and the reusable components, as you mentioned.
Are there goal to productionize them in the same way as the traditional data scientists?
We think about the traditional data science or machine learning. You want to eventually get
a model into production, maybe behind some API or even if it's batch, but like it's in production.
Whereas more of an analyst role, they want to get the insight. Maybe it's to generate a report
as opposed to have a model in the production. Curious how is that distinction significant to your
users? It is because at the end of it, they want their own API that they want to hit to drive
the insight. There is this desire for productionization of what they're doing on your platform.
Yes. We have like many productionized use cases. Whatever examples I was giving you before about
the third party card fraud or the workplace team, those are two of the many production use cases
that we have. At the end of it, yes, there is this API that they hit or it is hit automatically by
what we have built in the pipeline, which is kind of giving them the predictions or that they then
use or surface of the stack for the business to make necessary decisions. In a sense, just because
they're the citizen data scientists, they still need a fairly sophisticated set of tooling
to support what they want to do because they want to do a lot of the same things. They just don't
necessarily have the expertise or the desire to tweak all the parameters that the traditional
data scientists might have. Actually, they need more sophisticated because now the onus is on our
team because the contribution from the citizen data scientists, they don't know if they want to use
the dice coefficient versus the binary coefficient. So the onus is on us to kind of build that
sophisticated offering for them that they get the results if not better than same as if somebody
from their team would have created this handcrafted method. Got it. Yeah. Yeah. You mentioned in talking
about the fraud aspects of both batch and real time and when you talk about monitoring and
anomaly detection, real time comes to mind there as well. Can you talk a little bit about real time
requirements for the kinds of things that your users do and how you accommodate that? Sure. So
I'll give you example in general also first of all. So you know how the technology is changing
correct and I represent an average internet user. So if I'm on a website, I don't get what I
need to see in a couple of minutes I believe. And we know that there are so many platforms,
there are so many e-commerce systems. So machine learning has to be fast and it has to be fast
for example, right? If I'm on a e-commerce website, right? I need it needs to tell me like how do
they differentiate their products? There are so many vendors on that one, right? And then if
AI is an ML is getting smarter, right? If I'm leaving the website, they know they want to
intervene to keep me there. They want to upsell a product. So what's needed is something that is
very, very fast. So the way models have to be is not only that they need to be statistically strong
models, they need to be fast also. And what happens is like many a times I see that and even when I
started in my ML journey, the focus was mostly on building the sophisticated models, right? But
a lot of focus doesn't go into how to make them optimized in the sense like fast and also it's a
whole stack if you think about it, right? So you have a model which is fast. Then you have a platform
which is able to like surface the anomalies or surface the outputs of the model fast.
Then another interesting thing that happens is that these things are ultimately like but if you
see the entire stack, you might have a UI layer, you might have a business layer, you might have
different layers which are owned by different teams. So you need to have like an overall system
which deals with the TPS, 99 SLAs and everything so that the time in which the whole stack
responds in like few milliseconds. So what I'm trying to say here is that over time and coming
from the engineering background, the way I like to see a model as we talk a little bit before
also is like a piece of software or an API that's on production. So people need to focus on it.
If it's just a piece of software, I forget about the model development lifecycle. They should at
least think about it as a software development lifecycle and it should go through the same engineering
and operational radar. Real time makes it more interesting because now we are talking about distributed
systems. We are talking about TPS 99. We are talking about SLAs. We are talking about
the cost effective cost usage. So because there are so many things in the stack and they are so
interdependent so real time becomes kind of like challenge these days. So what we are doing is in our
system is that most of our use cases are batch models but there are few which are real time systems.
So what we are doing is like we have put in, so if the data is coming right in the magnitudes
of gigabytes or something, this is like mostly for training but when it comes to like real time,
we are trying to listen to the event bus so that we can listen to the, if some of our features
are coming through the event bus right, we need to factor that and we need to have our model
respond in microseconds or like 100 milliseconds or something. And then we need to make sure that our
that we are doing like parallelization of systems. We are having our DAX like work in a way that
we can parallelize depending on how how the feature vectors are created and everything. And then so
a lot of focus is right now on across the not just like the model has to be good or the algorithm
has to be fast but the whole pipelining that we are doing, it has to be like super fast.
And also the teams who are receiving it, they have to work with the same rigor as we are working
if they want to have like within product intervention. Are you doing much with serverless technologies
for inference? We are doing a lot of work which is serverless but a lot of work which is our own
proprietary internal stuff. Okay, okay. And you mentioned, you mentioned event bus so the idea is
that you've got some model server that is listening for events on an event bus and then hands
that to some model for inference when it sees the appropriate things. There are two ways to do
that actually. So we can read through the topics in real time. Our second thing is also that's
happening is that if a team has a partner teams have sophisticated feature platforms. So what
happens is that they can read from the topic and put it in the feature store from where we can
listen to those features or we can gather those features on the feature store. So both works.
Okay. And so I'm trying to get at other, I guess other challenges that you run into when you're
supporting these real time use cases. Sounds like real time in general is something that you expect
to grow there. You're doing a lot of batch but you're expecting to see more real time over time.
What else do you anticipate having to overcome as you take on more of those use cases?
So what we're also going to do is that for real time systems, we need to have more control
on our overall deployment, our workflows. So what we are also doing is not just for real time but
what we are also trying to do is, as I said, we are trying to centralize the build and centralize
ML ecosystem at Capital One. So not necessarily what my team is doing and what Ali's team is doing.
I see at some point we are going to work together on building something like a more sophisticated
real time serving, more sophisticated integrated batch serving. So we are coming together,
we are trying to do the best practices around like federated learning, automated learning.
So as the system is learning, it's training it's training automatically and then it's providing
better outcomes or better predictions. So we are on that journey, there are a lot of things
that we are working on and I'm pretty sure that we will be able to be almost real time.
I don't think any company is like fully real time but that's just me.
Sure, it's always latency somewhere. Yes. And introducing yourself, you talked about a pretty
wide variety of organization types that you worked at. Can you talk a little bit about how
tackling the kinds of challenges you are discussing here and in the use cases that you are discussing
here are different at a financial services firm like Capital One relative to more of the tech
oriented firm, the startup. What are some of the things that you need to think about that you
haven't had to think about at other places? Yeah, very interesting question Sam. Let me tell you.
So as I told you right, I grew from full stack in general to now being a leader in the
ML space. So I've worked in companies which are like startups to companies which are like Capital One
who are like highly regulated or into it. So the way I would like to answer this question
is in two ways. So if you are working in a startup or in any company who are in its initial ML
journey, you don't think about governance or regulation or compute cost, right? You basically
you don't have a whole lot of rules in place. So what you do is like, oh, I need this. Oh,
let me get this data set and let me just quickly build something. So you feel like very empowered,
you build something quick and snappy. But then when you grow in your ML maturity, that's when you
see like, oh my god, so many issues start surfacing up. Now your cloud pass are out of order. You have
like a data scientist who spun off a big cluster of the three GPUs to train a model and forgot to
shut it, right? And then multiple teams who are doing that, right? So what happens is like your
cloud cars start going up and then you end up seeing that different teams. There are 10 teams
in the company and they all have their ML individual ML platforms or pipelines. So then then the
leadership has to think about and then there is no governance. They are not thinking about PII,
PII, SOX compliance, GDPR, CCPA. As you said, in regulated companies, I can tell you all the names,
right? So then those things kick in, right? So that's why so there is this thing that we're now
eventually there is a tactic that's created, get created. And then the leadership have to make
some RDoS calls around like, hey, we need to throw away work or we need to merge or we need to
merge. But now working in companies which are in the ML maturity space, right? And especially the
regulated environments, what I've seen being a machine learning engineering leader is very important
to standardize the tools. It's very neat. It's very important not just the tools, your processes,
your algorithms, right? What this does is like now these companies are big companies which have a
lot of ML associates, data scientists, MLEs. But what it allows it, it helps them to come with
a centralized process where they can identify they have mechanism, they know how the ingestion
pipelines are working. They know how what's the best way of getting the data? They are scripts
or there are like scripts in place where you just cannot spin off an EC2 by going to your
control plane. You need to follow some rules and practices, right? And then as I'm talking about
governance and auditing. So what happens in like companies like Capra one which are highly regulated,
you need to be able to store your engineering, your training runs, the input and output parameters
that were part of the model, right? So that if needed you are able to recreate the model,
you need to be able to tell the customer that if you get audited why such a decision was taken
fundamentally. And then it's important that you have governance like at Capra one we have our
model review office. So that's where I see the difference. But again I'm not going to shy away
from saying that like all these things add like a lot of processes in place which sometimes
people don't like. And what happens is like these procedures and practices in place,
it at times create a lot of dependencies and then like your time to market or your time to go
to production like slows down. But honestly on this one Sam trust me on this one, it's much better
to be a little bit late than to go to production and then have to deal with the production and compliance
issues. It's it's not fun to do. Meaning in your experience it's better to have those processes
integrated into the development of your model as opposed to trying to bolt them on at the end.
Yes. Yes. And also please follow the processes because everything looks nice but if you ever
get audited because your model behaves a certain way or you have to go through a compliance issue
that takes like weeks or months to work on that. You mentioned this the need for reproducibility
and the idea that you're taking all of your training inputs and training data and kind of
storing that away so that you can reproduce these models. Is that based on internally developed
technology or do you use some external some third party tool to provide for that? No internal build
technology. Internal build technology I can talk a little bit more about it. So in storage costs
are not that great. Storage is cheap. So in without taking name of the company I've worked in
various companies like where logging is our instrumentation is very very important right you need
to instrument what are the features coming and you need to instrument what is the model's output
is and then other things which go in the part of like reprocessing of feature engineering.
So that you have all that data. So now if you get a customer call saying that hey you
said this and I went through this and then maybe that's not the right decision for that customer
then you need to be able to go and see exactly what happened and it helps you by for answering
the question of the customer but also helps you reverse engineer better about what went into
the what went into it and you know like how expandability and responsible AI and all those
things are important. So a good instrumentation of the whole how much ever you can instrument
I think it's never enough. That's just me. That's my engineering mindset.
On the topic of engineering mindset you you kind of alluded to a level of robustness
that's required which makes me think about like testing and the importance of that and that
seems like something that over the past I guess year 18 months like we've kind of gotten to
the state and machine learning where we're you know trying to apply the same level of rigor that
we've had for traditional software to model testing you know have whole companies set up now around
model observability as one kind of expression of of this desire for testing. Can you talk a
little bit about how you approach that for your platforms and teams? Sure so what I want to start
by saying is that what I alluded before also so model when it's on production it's it should
be treated as a piece of software or an API but with more sophistication now because there is the
involvement of the data piece right. Today even today even though you're saying we we are thinking
about like okay MLabs and testing and scalable models still I personally feel a big chunk of time
goes into like creating a sophisticated model which has like a high statistical efficacy.
You want to spend rounds of cycles doing hyperventure to your name feature engineering and everything.
I think defensive coding and exception handling that they are key right there if if anything else
if the model is a piece of software it needs to go through the same rigor right. It needs to have
like end-to-end testing, integration testing, unit testing, load testing, AB testing
but what makes a model special is because there is this data component so data quality testing is
the key and you know what it's interesting as data scientists and machine learning engineers
sometimes we think oh I have spent this humongous cycle of building these features and I've dealt
with everything now my features are good but that's where I think the mistake happens because see
we are the one who are closest to the data the data scientists and ML engineers so I think the
onus is on them to write as part of their code around the defensive coding or data quality test
there is a high ROI in defensive coding right or preventive coding as I mentioned different types
of coding I think data quality testing is the key for example right some of the data quality
testing that we are doing and then I think is value add is checking the data type and the values
of categorical data another one interesting one is the categorical is the cardinality shift right
where there is a sudden shift in the distribution of categories and bam your model is predicting
like it has predicting a particular category data leakage and drift over time and something which
is very close to my heart is missing data there are so many papers around how you want to impute data
and then what are the techniques well particularly for forecasting and anomaly detection that's
going to be a big deal for you yes but then also we need to know where we draw the line let me
talk a little bit more about it right so some you know the feature vectors these days are like
highly complicated they are based on myriad data sources right so I think we need to have some
guardrails and thresholds on how much in which features should be allowed with missing data
how much can be imputed and what we should not be imputing so that's where the responsibility part
comes in also so and at what point the model should just like raise an exception and be like hey
this is not adequate for me to make the predictions meaning at what I'm hearing there is sound like
you you you're speaking to examples where okay you you you kind of do the thing that you learn
in school right you have missing data we're going to impute it but if you don't have if you're not
paying too much attention you could be imputing half of your data and you you really don't know
what your model is basing its decision known it's the signal the noise is not high enough yes exactly
that's what I'm saying like data science is a privilege but it's a responsibility also so we need
to be able to draw a line around what can or cannot be imputed I'll give you a very simple example
and the reason I'm giving you this example because I have carried multiple times at different places
right so I'll you know demographic models we build a lot of demographic models and most of the
times zip port is one of the important features right from which you can drive you can have like okay
short distance from this place long distance or get bunch of other demographic data I've seen
many a times the model is expecting a five digit day zip port but sometimes the users if they it's
a free text they pass in a nine digit and then the mark phase so what I'm suggesting the people
is like hey it's only one or two lines of this extra port which should be part of the model on
the key processing port and it can just save us like bunch of trouble for our use cases right Sam
as I said like we we focus a lot on centralizing of it engineering and operational
regular code standards across capital one so we have standards for coding we do peer review we do
unit testing integration testing end-to-end testing cross validation and like every other company
our data quality testing is evolving to so some of the best industry practices that I've seen
is like creating synthetic synthetic or world and data sets right and then you revisit them
when you find the edge cases other thing we do is like scenario based testing to mitigate output
or surprises are recently I was also reading about how we people do randomizing or first
testing in software engineering that is also becoming becoming like important in the data science
or ML world yes so those are some of the best practices we follow and thinking back to
kind of your role in enabling these these citizen data scientists imagining that
these are things that you want your team thinking about and building guardrails around or
implementing but not necessarily you know that's a lot of cognitive burden to put on a citizen
data scientist to think about you know this and that not impute too much data and that kind of
thing like are they things that you're able to kind of isolate as concerns of your platform as
opposed to concerns of the end user so what we do is as you said we have guardrails built in place
right so where we are today we are doing UI and API based evaluation but where we want to be is
that which we are working towards is like the user just goes on the API go on the UI just say
this is my data press a button and after that we take care of everything right so at every pace we
want a guardrail for example let's just say I'm just going to give an example right let's just
say this user is asking us to frame the model with like some 50 60 gigabyte worth of data right
so we want to be able to do some testing we cannot do like this whole kind of everything but we
want to have some and we want the user to tell us like okay for think about like as a regular
business use case right in the bespoke world what happens is uh the business intelligence
the business analyst or the product sees something is happening on a specific page or something
is happening they think oh there is definitely a signal let's go to the data science team now
and see if they we can have like an ML intervention or like a date or an insight built in during
this journey similarly when people come to us they have already seen oh there has been this fraud
or hey how they are being using something based off excel for the associate student
back to work the uh or sorry in the hybrid work environment right so what's happening there
right so they have some signals so our x our hope is like we'll be at a place where they just
go to our UI they say where the data is which are some of the critical features that they need
and then we have some reg uh based on like our learnings as we are learning every day we go
until like okay for this particular feature these are important we put the guardrails that okay
this kind of data quality checks are in place this much data needs to be there especially as you
said anomaly like time series right what can be imputed what's the best way of imputing we do
some kind of data cleaning randling show the features then have the user take a look at it and say
like okay press the next button we're training happens then they deploy whether they want to go
on batch versus that we are time so that's the end state that we are working on can you talk a
little bit about you know we've we've talked about use cases and kind of technology as far
year in this position where you see all that but you're also kind of looking the other direction
in the organization uh towards the the business side of things um can you talk a little bit about
how you think about kind of ROI of machine learning and um getting buy-in from executives and
you know all the things that you need to think about as uh ML leader sure so let me tell you first
what is working for us right so when we complete a project for our internal user right internal
client right we create detailed documentation around what the problem statement was what were the
challenges that the team was facing what is the solution that we provided what were the results
of that solution and then what's a value proposition like what's a nibbett or like dollars we are
helping in like operational efficiencies and then we ask them as they feel okay to write some
testimonials and then what are the next steps right so there's also our learning like what really
went well what would be done to get better next time right and then what we do is like we uh we
promote our wins with our stakeholders and leaders across the enterprise and then personally as
a leader once uh once we have like some proof points in terms of like ROI and better user experience
it keeps the leadership engaged and that also helps us like okay now that we are preventing
X million dollars here oh it means like if we can invest more in here to like tackle similar kind
of use cases etc so at capital one what we have think what we see is that ROI can be not just money
it's like I personally think it's three things it's like improving user experience generating
operational efficiencies and driving the top line so those are some of the things because not every
model will give you some money directly it could be like oh because we have done that so our analysis
time has decreased from a month to now like two days or something right so those are the ways so
not everything we can put a dollar that we want directly and so have you you know through your
your track record have you demonstrated kind of consistent ROI such that you know the only thing you
know you you would do 10 times as many projects if you had enough people to do them like is it
our is talent the constraint or you know you're still buying for funding relative to other potential
efforts or uses of a resource at the company our team has established ourselves so we are helping
drive the ROI by helping other teams operational efficiencies and like better user experience
so our leadership like trust us and then we haven't hit like the roadblock where we go and say
like we need some resources they understand that but what we also need to do is like we need to
have a good justification hey we have done this we are saving this x million dollars if we get
these two other folks to help us out we can bring in another five to ten use cases of similar thing
because and you'll be like hey the shawaier you're saying two people and five to ten use cases
because I want to remind you like whatever we do is we do it in a reusable fashion so
yes so that's love is and so does that is your implication that you're not so concerned about talent
there you you okay no no no I what I mean is this see top talent in industry especially in
ml is it's not easy to get it so you need to be able to continuously motivate them right give them
work which is challenging let them like people want to work even I want to work on things which
I know is impacting my customers right so some challenging statement so what we do is we continue
to grow our engineers our ml ml folks are data scientists right and also there we are what we do
is like as we are on this cutting edge or bleeding edge of ml right as we are improving our stack
what we continue to do is like we invest in our in our in our associates we train them we
retrain them right and also we have like a strong pipeline of external candidates for which
we have like a very rigorous process built in and then I think you have talked to buy an
an alley before and they might have also talked to you about like how capper one is so invested
and like working with universities like MIT UVA and everybody so we have like and especially
when it comes to ml right I'm very impressed with all the efforts we are putting in we have like this
ml training program we have a product manager ml training program we have like a PhD program
so capper one is doing a lot to keep its associates on this bleeding edge of ml technology and also
we have this DEI like diversity inclusion and belonging kind of culture where we are also
trying to attract up talent from the industry on those on those principles and to be clear my
implication wasn't that you didn't care about your talent or anything like that it was more
was the degree to which talent was a constraint for your particular team ml is interesting because
it's not like saw a simple software in simple engineering where you learn something new packages
like honestly Sam I try to keep myself of the technology by the time I I like carve out time to
do something and I'm like yes this weekend I'm going to study that and then then a new technology
or new thing is out right I was looking at this 2022 Gartner paper where they were talking
about some friends and everything and I just wrote down like five or six things that I'm going to
study in next one or two months and I was then I started talking to my colleagues at capper one
and I was like very impressed by some of the things our team and they are already doing which is
on the Gartner uh next two to five years so there is in ml you need to keep yourself like always
learning it's tough moves quickly it's fun how do you think the way that machine learning is
approached there at capital one will evolve over the next I don't know three years
so it kind of goes into what I was saying like the 2022 Gartner study with the hype cycle for
data science and machine learning so I as I mentioned I was going through that and what
it suggests companies or industries are going to be moving in next two to five years and I'm
very pleased to see capper one is pursuing that earlier we talked about like capper one is trying
to build this ml coherent ml ecosystem right and what we are trying to do is that how we talked
about my peers team and I think we're trying to serve all personas if you'll be citizen data
scientist traditional data scientist right and what we are trying to do is we are trying to
centralize our platforms we're trying to democratize we are trying to do reusability of
libraries components right so what we are trying to do is like ml available accessible and
leverageable for every for all with necessary guardrails and responsibility in place that's
where I see we are growing there is like a lot of emphasis on overall like redeem automating
the overall machine learning development like cycle wise building robust pipelines for ingestion
data ingestion sophisticated feature platforms training and execution platform I'm thinking all
the things my peers are doing and my team is saying something the CID CICD platforms the feature
and model monitoring right we are investing a lot into ml ops extensively ml observability
another interesting thing is like provisioning clean data and govern access to data are important
these days cost optimizations scalable multi-tenancy platform as you said and like multi-regions so
stabilizing our platforms we are also researching a lot of things around graph ml synthetic data set
which I mentioned before ml ops model ops transfer and federated learning and then because we are
in governance we are in the governance it's I would want to say again and again like we have a
model review office and then we continue to invest in our standards for governance transparency
and accessibility for models so I see like capper one is on the beating edge of ml and I'm very proud
to be here and I'm very impressed by the work my particular organization and all my
sounds like you got a lot going on it's it's fun it's fun it's an awesome journey we are on
awesome awesome with this you thanks so much for taking the time to share with us a little
bit about your team and what you're up to thank you thank you